Demonstration - Network Connectivity

Task 1 - Network Security Groups

Note: This task requires a Windows virtual machine associated with a network security group. The NSG 
should have an inbound security rule that allows RDP. The virtual machine should be in a running state 
and have a public IP address.

In this task, we will review networking rules, confirm the public IP page does not display, configure an 
inbound NSG rule, and confirm the public IP page now displays.
Review networking rules

1. In the Portal, navigate to your virtual machine.
2. Under Settings, click Networking.
3. Discuss the default inbound and outbound rules.
4. Review the inbound rules and ensure RDP is allowed.
5. Make a note of the public IP address.

Connect to the virtual machine and test the public IP address

1. From the Overview blade, click Connect and RDP in to the virtual machine.
2. On the virtual machine, open a browser.
3. Test the default localhost IIS HTML page: http://localhost/default.htm. This page should appear.
4. Test the default public IP IIS HTML page: http://public_IP_address/default.htm. This page should not display.

Configure an inbound rule to allow public access on port 80
1. Return to the Portal and the Networking blade.
2. Make a note of the virtual machines private IP address.
3. On the Inbound port rules tab, click Add inbound port rule. This rule will only allow certain IP address on port 80. As you go through the configuration settings be sure to discuss each one.
● Source: Service Tag
● Source service tag: Internet
● Destination: IP addresses
● Destination IP addresses/CIDR range: private_IP_address/32
● Destination port range: 80
● Protocol: TCP
● Action: Allow
● Name: Allow_Port_80
● Click Add
4. Wait for your new inbound rule to be added.
Retest the public IP address
1. On the virtual machine return to the browser.
2. Refresh the default public IP IIS HTML page: http://public_IP_address/default.htm. This 
page should now display.
Task 2 - Application Service Groups
Note: This task requires a Windows virtual machines with IIS installed. These steps use VM1. Your machine name may be different.
In this task, we will connect to a virtual machine, create an inbound deny rule, configure and application 
security group, and test connectivity.
Connect to the virtual machine
1. In the Portal, navigate to VM1.
2. On the Networking blade, make a note of the private IP address.
3. Ensure there is an Inbound port rule that allows RDP.
4. From the Overview blade, ensure VM1 is running.
5. Click Connect and RDP into the VM1.
6. On VM1, open a browser.
7. Ensure the default IIS page display for the private IP address: http://private_IP_address/
default.htm.
Add an inbound deny rule and test the rule
1. Continue in the Portal from the Networking blade.
2. On the Inbound port rules tab, click Add inbound port rule. Add a rule that denies all inbound 
traffic.
● Destination port ranges: *
● Action: Deny
● Name: Deny_All
● Click Add
3. Wait for your new inbound rule to be added.
4. On VM1, refresh the browser page: http://private_IP_address/default.htm.
5. Verify that the page does not display.

Configure an application security group

1. In the Portal, search for and select Application security groups.
2. Create a new Application security group.
3. Provide the required information: subscription, resource group, name, and region.
4. Wait for the ASG to deploy.
5. In the Portal, return to VM1.
6. On the Networking blade, select the Application security groups tab.
7. Click Configure the application security groups.
8. Select your new application security group, and Save your changes.
9. From the Inbound port rules tab, click Add inbound rule. This will allow the ASG.
● Source: Application security group
● Source application security group: your_ASG
● Destination: IP addresses
● Destination IP addresses: private_IP_address/32
● Destination port range: 80
● Priority: 250
● Name: Allow_ASG
● Click Add
10. Wait for your new inbound rule to be added.

Test the application security group
1. On VM1, refresh the browser page: http://private_IP_address/default.htm.
2. Verify that the page now displays.
